This is Jockelpontcast number 214.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
Dear George, at 0700 this morning,
the BBC announced that the German radio had just come out
with an announcement of the landing of Allied paratroops
and of large numbers of assault craft near the shore.
So that is it.
This group of unconscribable heroes
whom I command are not in yet, but we will be soon.
I wish I was there now as it is a lovely sunny day for battle
and I am fed up with just sitting.
I have no immediate idea of being killed,
but one can never tell and none of us can live forever.
So if I should go, don't worry, but set yourself
to do better than I have.
All men are timid on entering any fight.
Whether it is the first fight or the last fight,
all of us are timid.
Cowards are those who let their timidity
get the better of their manhood.
You will never do that because of your bloodlines
on both sides.
I think I've told you the story of Marshall Torraine
who fought under Louis XIV.
On the morning of one of his last battles,
he had been fighting for 40 years.
He was mounting his horse when a young aide
to camp who had just come from the court
and had never missed a meal or heard a hostile shot.
Said Mr. Torraine, it amazes me
that a man of your supposed courage
should permit his knees to tremble
as he walks out to Mount.
Torraine replied,
my Lord Duke, I admit that my Nate knees do tremble.
But should they know where I shall this day take them,
they would shake even more?
That is it.
Your knees may shake,
but they will always take you toward the enemy.
Well, so much for that.
There are apparently two types of successful soldiers.
Those who get on by being unobtrusive
and those who get on by being obtrusive.
I am of the latter type and seem to be rare
and unpopular, but it is my method.
One has to choose a system and stick to it.
People who are not themselves are nobody.
To be a successful soldier, you must know history.
Read it objectively.
Dates and even the minute details of tactics are useless.
What you must know is how man reacts.
Weapons change, but man who uses them changes not at all.
To win battles, you do not beat weapons.
You beat the soul of man of the enemy.
To do that, you have to destroy his weapons,
but that is only incidental.
You must read biography
and especially autobiography.
If you do that, it will, you will find that war is simple.
Decide what will hurt the enemy most
within the limits of your capabilities to harm him
and then do it.
Take calculated risks.
That is quite different from being rash.
My personal belief is that if you have a 50% chance,
take it because of the superior fighting qualities
of American soldiers lead me, led by me,
will surely give you the extra 1% necessary.
Incidentally, I decided as a result of my information
observations and a sixth sense that I have
that the enemy did not have another large scale
attack in his system.
I bet my shirt on that and I was right.
You cannot make war safely, but no dead general
has ever been criticized.
So you have that way out always.
I am sure that if every leader who goes into battle
will promise himself that he will either come out
a conqueror or a corpse, he is sure to win.
There is no doubt of that.
Defeat is not due to losses,
but to the destruction of the soul of the leaders.
The most vital quality a soldier can possess
is self-confidence, utter, complete and bumpuous.
You can have doubts about your good looks,
about your intelligence, about your self-control,
but to win in war, you must have no doubts
about your ability as a soldier.
What success I have had results from the fact
that I have always been certain that my military
reactions were correct.
Many people do not agree with me.
They are wrong.
The un-airing jury of history written long after both of us
are dead will prove me correct.
Note that I speak of military reactions.
No one is born with them anymore than anyone is born
with muscles.
You can be born with the soul capable of correct military
reactions or the body capable of having big muscles,
but both qualities must be developed by hard work.
The intensity of your desire to acquire
any special ability depends on character, on ambition.
I think that your decision to study this summer
instead of enjoying yourself shows
that you have character and ambition.
And they are wonderful possessions.
Soldiers, all men in fact are natural hero worshippers.
Officers with a flare for command realize this
and emphasize in their conduct, dress and deportment.
The qualities they seek to produce in their men.
When I was a second lieutenant,
I had a captain who was very sloppy and usually late.
He got after his men for just those faults.
He was a failure.
The troops I have commanded have always been well dressed,
been smart saluters, been prompt and bold and action
because I have personally set the example in these qualities.
The influence one man can have on thousands
is a never-ending source of wonder to me.
You are always on parade.
Officers who through laziness or a foolish desire
to be popular fail to enforce discipline
and the proper wearing of uniforms and equipment,
not in the presence of the enemy,
will also fail in battle.
And if they fail in battle, they are potential mergers.
There is no such thing as a good field soldier.
You are either a good soldier or a bad soldier.
Well, this has been quite a sermon,
but don't get the idea that it is my swan song
because it is not.
I have not finished my job yet.
Signed your affectionate father.
And that right there, if you haven't guessed
as a letter from General George S. Patent
to his son, the George as the day unfolded.
And as you can see from the letter
and also if you know anything about Patent,
at all he was well known, not only for his skill and battle
and as a tactician and as a leader, but also well known
for his ego.
Let me read this part again.
The most vital quality a soldier can possess
his self confidence, utter complete and bump to us.
And what bump truss means is is proud to a degree
where it's irritating.
So it means what it sounds like, right?
And he's saying that's how you need to be.
He continues on, you can have doubts about your good looks
about your intelligence, about your self control,
but to win in war you must have no doubts
about your ability as a soldier.
What success I have had results from the fact
that I have always been certain
that my military reactions were correct.
Many people do not agree with me, they are wrong.
Now, that's obviously very contrary to what I think,
which is the most important characteristic
for a leader to have is humility.
So we're actually saying the exact opposite things here.
I mean straight up the opposite things.
He's saying the most important thing is self confidence,
but he doesn't say self confidence.
He says utter and complete and bump truss.
That's what he says.
That's not, that's not humility.
So where does this wash out?
We have to remember that the patent's career was not unblumished.
And this is the thing that I'm gonna keep kind of tying
this back to.
A lot of the things that I think
you remember when we did
Chairman Mao and we talked about
Chairman Mao and his methodology for winning in guerrilla war.
And everything that he said,
well, it wasn't like aligned with what I say.
And what are the key components of that?
Maybe not everything, but a lot of what he was saying
and I'd have to review it again,
but a lot of what he was saying,
but one thing that he absolutely said,
Chairman Mao, father of communist China,
said all throughout that the leaders in the field
need to make decisions, they need to step up,
they need to lead at what he's talking about
his decentralized command.
And what puzzles me about that is
because he recognized that you needed to have decentralized
command for a military victory, right to win.
But then he never transposed that idea
of decentralized command into his government.
And we actually do know that centralized government
doesn't work any better than centralized military
command than centralized business leadership.
It doesn't work.
So he never made that connection apparently.
And sometimes when I read about patent,
if you know about patent,
and you know about his career
and you know what happened to him,
sometimes you, it hurts a little bit to know
that this guy who was such a great patriot,
who was such a great tactician,
that if he could have applied some of his principles
of leadership on the battlefield,
if he could have applied those to his interactions
with other people, he might have ended up
in a much better position.
And we'll get into some of that.
Some of the things that he did,
one, there was an attack on a place called Fort Giante,
in the fall of 1944.
And I got this little, I wanted to kind of summarize it.
And there's a thing called the warfare history network
that summarized it very well.
It said the entire operation gradually settled
into a stalemate with the Americans
unable to achieve any further gains
and the men hanging on desperately
to what had been won in the hard fighting.
Food, water, and ammunition were running out
and the men holding positions underground
were exposed to the dust and fumes of the tunnels
by October 9th, Patent's attitude about the attack
had changed completely.
He said the show is going sour, we will have to pull out.
It had quickly become a no win situation for the Americans
because both daylight and nocturnal salts had failed.
Daytime attacks were vulnerable to the deadly fire
that rained down on Fort Giante from the adjacent forts
at night assaults were quickly broken up
and driven into confusion when the German squads
emerged from their underground tunnels.
The third army suffered 64 men killed 547 wounded,
187 missing assumed captured,
so and not achieving the objective.
So that's not good, right?
So the idea to think that everything I think of is correct.
And there you go, even Patent, guess what he had to do?
He had to go, okay, this isn't working.
He might not like to admit that,
but he had to work and do well.
And let's just not do this.
Another thing he did, he orchestrated a raid
on a POW camp called O'Flog 13B.
It was impolent.
And there's, I'm not going to go into the details now,
but he actually thought that perhaps his son-in-law
was a prisoner there.
And so he organized this raid and a guy named Abraham Baum,
conducted the raid, 300 men went on the mission,
of which 32 were confirmed killed in action
and another 200 over 200 were missing or taken prisoner
and only 35 of the 300 made it back to friendly lines.
So that is not good.
And then on top of that, here's where I look at
and I say if he would have had more humility.
And once again, I gotta say this, right?
Cause I talk about humility all the time.
There's a reason that I talk about humility, it's all time.
Okay, in the dichotomy of leadership,
can you be too humble?
Echo Charles, can you be too humble?
Yes.
Yes, you can.
Can you have too much confidence?
Yes, that becomes arrogant, it's an ego, that's bad.
The reason that I talk about humility so much
is because it is the of the two leanings
that people can make in the dichotomy most of the time,
most of the time, it's their two confidence.
That's most of the time, right?
Cause if you have someone that's moving into a leadership
position, they have to have some confidence to get there.
So therefore, a person in leadership position
is gonna lean towards having confidence,
which is gonna lean them towards if they're gonna be
either not confident enough or too confident,
they're gonna lean towards too much confidence, right?
Because the person that lacks confident
will they're not in the leadership position?
They didn't work to didn't maneuver
to get the they didn't believe in themselves.
So they didn't really get there.
Are there times where you have to talk to a leader
about hey, you need more confidence,
you need to be less humble, absolutely.
There are times.
But Pat and clearly,
was an example of he lean towards too much ego, too much confidence.
So what I'm saying is, and that was part of his power, too, right?
You get around someone that's super confident about things
and they're like, oh no, we're gonna make this happen.
And you go, yes, we are, I'm following this guy.
So confidence, an ego is a positive thing.
It absolutely is.
Too much of it, and you can get yourself in trouble.
Let's look at what happened
at towards the end of the war.
Pat and got relieved of command.
They moved him out of commanding combat troops
and they moved him into a position
which was a, it was like a,
what's that word?
It was like a figurehead position.
Okay, cool.
They put him in charge of the 15th army,
which sounds really cool,
but they were actually just responsible
for capturing the history of what was happening.
So we're talking low impact job.
No, and by the way, no command in the Pacific,
because they were still fighting and he wanted
to go to the Pacific, didn't take over any major troops.
Didn't even go, didn't even go to Pacific theater.
Not even in charge of like the occupation army,
in Germany, not even in charge of that.
So think about that.
Here's this guy, and because of his tactical prowess,
he did great on the battlefield,
but as soon as they could,
they shifted him over and put him out the pasture.
Why is that?
Because of his ego.
So that's what bombs me out is because,
if he would have just had some humility to think,
how am I going to play this game a little bit better?
How am I going to interact with my superiors?
With my superior officers, how am I going to interact with them?
He probably would have, if he absolutely,
I should have probably, would he absolutely
could have ended up being the Supreme Allied commander, for sure?
But he didn't.
So that being said, of course,
there's all kinds of things we can learn from Patton.
And who knows, maybe he was right.
This maybe his son wasn't a very confident person.
Maybe he was trying to balk balk to his son up
in this particular letter.
But there's a lot of things that he wrote.
And I mean, there's a lot, and it's awesome to read.
But last time we covered Letter of Instruction One and Two
to his troops, this is again, going back towards prior
to D.T.
D.T.
And we might as well just jump into Letter of Instruction Number Three.
Now this one was very, very tactical.
And by that, I mean, I should, shouldn't even say tactical,
because tactics is good.
Very specific talking about types of armor
and what to do in very specific situations.
So I'm going to take a little bit less from this letter,
but there is a bunch of things in here that are relevant,
are powerful, and things that anybody that's
in a leadership situation can utilize.
So this one's a little bit, I'm jumping around a bit.
I should, since I'm jumping around,
but I'm skipping more stuff in this letter,
but you can find these online if you want to.
So one of the things he says to begin with,
haste and speed are not synonymous.
By this, I mean that hasty attacks do not produce
speedy successes or speedy advances,
because hasty attacks are not coordinated attacks,
haste makes ways.
So rushing to get something done, not effective.
Hey, that's what he means by haste,
which is weird, because I think when I think of the word haste,
and I don't want to dive into like the etymology
of the word haste, but I think it has a little bit of a,
now it is, I think it has a little bit of a positive
connotation, right?
Hey, we need to make haste, we need to move quick,
like it's a good thing, but I think even just this short time
ago, it's more aligned with the idea of haste makes
a waste, right?
Like if it's more like rushing,
because rushing doesn't have a positive connotation, right?
You say, hey, you need to rush, like no one says that.
No one says, hey, rush with your homework to your kid.
You don't say rush, no you say hurry.
You need to say move faster, but you don't say,
you don't say rush, because that means you're going to miss something.
Yeah, almost like rush means hurry with the note
that it's like in a negative way.
Or in a like, and so I think this at this time here at haste
had that connotation as well.
So he's saying haste makes ways to continuing in an armored
division as an infantry division, attacks must be coordinated
and the infantry and the tanks and the guns must work as a unit.
Success depends upon the coordinated use of guns and the tanks.
So what does that mean?
Covered move.
That's what it means, work together as a team.
All your different elements in your company and your team
and your business need to work together.
Wouldn't that seem obvious?
Wouldn't it seem obvious?
Yeah.
It's not obvious.
Well, it's obvious hard to do.
People don't do it like they should.
Yeah, one of the many things that seem obvious
is they had or when you're not involved in it,
but then you know in science.
You know, that's why in leadership strategy and tactics
when I was talking about what to do is a new leader.
And I say like read this before you go into a meeting, read this
when you go to bed at night because you can't just read it.
Go, cool.
Okay, I read through now.
I'm good.
No, you need to embed it into your brain.
Read what the laws of combat.
No, the section on page 158 of leadership strategy,
the tactics and everything that I know that is because people
people said, oh, I just answered, I go, I go to page 150
and leadership strategy and tactics.
But you can't just read it one time, be like, okay, no,
you need to embed those things into your brain.
Yeah.
It's something kind of like this, right?
How long does it take to embed in the brain
that, oh, we need to work together?
A little bit more cover and move here.
When tanks are advancing, they must use their guns
for what is known as recliner.
Reconnaissance by fire.
That is they must shoot at any terrestrial object
behind which an anti tank gun might be concealed
and take these targets under fire to arrange
greater than the range at which an anti tank gun is effective.
In other words, at a range of greater than 2,000 yards.
Actually, that's not even really covered.
It's kind of a little bit of cover move,
but that's being proactive, right?
Hey, there could be an anti tank gun over there.
The anti tank gun has a range of whatever,
a thousand meters at 2,000 meters.
I'm hitting those targets.
I'll somebody hit me up on it on Twitter
and said there was a name for that type of shooting
and I can't remember what it is.
But it's shooting where you think the enemy might be.
In tank versus tank, doles the first round
should be armor piercing.
If this fails, the second round must be white phosphorus
and short, so as to give our tank a chance to maneuver
because by keeping its gun laid on with smoke,
it has a better chance of getting in the second telling shot
than has the enemy who, when he emerges from the smoke,
does not know the location of our vehicle,
armored infantry should make a violent attack
using all its men and weapons.
So that's a cool one.
If you fire your first shot, cool the second shot,
you've got to put some smoke out so they can't see what you're doing.
You should have hit him on the first shot.
If you don't, you're good because you put in some smoke
where you still know where he is,
but he has to look through this giant smoke.
And so when he, when the smoke clears,
he doesn't know where you are and you're getting another round on him.
We used to set up our magazines
with something called a party mix.
So do you have different types of rounds for your weapon?
And so guys would put like armor piercing rounds,
like the first couple rounds armor piercing rounds.
The second couple, I think everyone to do the own thing
because like the second one would be like a,
a more of an anti-personel type round.
That's kind of, and this is against the Geneva convention.
It's not, it's not called an expanding round
because it doesn't expand, but there's rounds
that we have that tumble when they hit.
So be some of those then, some tracers at the bottom.
Like all kinds of, they can just,
they set up a little party mix.
Yeah, we do that with shotguns.
Oh, we do, do we?
We do, yeah.
Look at his guy.
Oh, tactical echo.
Comment in how it's going to be.
We're not going to be tactical.
It's just anyway.
Okay.
Well, you know what I'm saying, right?
That makes sense.
All right.
You understand that I understand what you're talking about.
That's what I'm saying.
Tactical echo coming in hot.
That's what we do with shotguns.
What party mix do you use, my friend?
Educate, buckshot, birdshot, slug.
You'll have one after the other.
So they're like different.
You can see how they feel, whatever.
Yeah.
What do you have in your home?
Double.
Okay.
For the shotguns.
Yes.
Double up.
That's where you're going with.
That's where we're going with.
Okay.
Both the end two and three.
The whole magazine is filled with those.
Well, they're not.
That's what I have.
But yeah, that's what I would.
Yeah.
So you know what I feel the mega deep.
I've got a slug.
No.
Okay.
I think it's just for fun when you do the party mix.
Yeah.
Or it makes me, you know, my ass.
There we go.
Yeah.
No, no, no.
The party mix is not for friend act for fun echo Charles.
In my experience.
There's a reason for it.
I got to think through it.
There's a bunch of different reasons why you could set things up a different way.
Right?
Yes.
I would think so.
You could.
I understand.
Check.
This is welcome to the podcast.
I'm so glad.
This guy got a gun.
And now it's out.
I'm going to check.
Tell, let me know.
I'm staying in my ear.
Tell Patten what's up.
Oh, check.
I probably just shut down.
You ever say anything about my job.
I know.
I will be your channel bond with you in Patten.
But we're, we're, we're, we're one.
Right.
It is more important to get.
It is more important to get the information back fast than to get it back secretly.
Therefore, use clear with a limited code for name only.
This is interesting.
So you have encrypted radios.
You have codes that you can use.
And what he's saying is like, listen, and sometimes especially now, especially in the past,
that would make transmitting information a lot harder.
It takes the power away from the signal.
Sometimes it just takes time to encrypt the message.
And what he's saying is like, listen, it's more important that we get the information
back there than it is that we keep it all secret.
It's just an interesting point to me because it shows the importance of fast communication
of letting people know what's happening.
Yeah, this is obviously something you have to be careful of.
But it's an interesting point.
Just the fact that you have to keep information flowing as quickly as possible.
And at this time, keeping it moving fast would Trump keeping it secure.
In tactical situations, because obviously there's strategic situations.
I mean, we broke the German and NIGMA code.
We broke the Japanese code.
And that was massively important for us to win the wars.
So continuing whenever German anti-tank guns have gotten our tanks, it has almost always
been our own fault.
Despite of years of instruction, tanks will go up obvious tank lanes, such as cart tracks,
open river bottoms, small roads or path or along hedges, all of which any intelligent
anti-tank gunner will have a range to cover.
Isn't that brilliant?
Like when you're looking at the terrain, you can go on, oh, look at this path.
If we go down that path, guess what?
The German gunners are expecting you to have path, and they're going to be waiting for you.
It's also an interesting idea of ownership when we lose a tank.
It's almost always our fault.
Next, the German anti-tank gunners a good shot.
We are better shots.
He is unprotected.
We are behind inches of steel.
If we use our heads and our American ingenuity and initiative, we have nothing to fear
from the German anti-tank guns.
You know what's crazy?
I just hit me as I'm reading this.
That he's saying these things specifically because guys were scared of these German anti-tank
guns.
I'm just thinking about it from a tankers perspective.
When you're at a tank, you're all claustrophobic, you're locked in this thing.
It's this weird dichotomy.
In one sense, you feel really protected, and in another sense, you feel completely vulnerable.
You feel protected because all these little bullets aren't going to hurt you.
Some mines aren't going to hurt you, but then at the same time, you know, one big hit, and
there's nothing you can do about it.
You're going to die.
So that's an interesting thing.
He's addressing that fault that can go through someone's head is like, okay, yeah, I feel
protected, but also one hit, and I'm dead.
The way that when you're armor gets pierced by an anti-tank gun, like the picture
being in a tank, and there's just hot metal spraying around and they're going to kill
you.
Like it's an awful thing to picture.
Is it hard, like, okay, when you're in the tank, it's kind of claustrophobic.
Is it, is it hard to get in and out of this?
Like it takes a little while, especially if you get hit with a mind, and you know,
you these big giant steel doors, imagine how hard it is when that thing gets bent a little
bit.
You're not getting out.
Oh man, you're going to panic in there.
Well, I'm going to panic in there.
Yeah, or even like if you, and not that this would happen all the time or whatever, I don't
know, but like if you just tips over or something, and it's like, oh, we got to get out
of here and you're like, kind of stock.
Yeah, it's horrible.
Yeah.
But at the same time, it's like, it is protected.
Like, that's what he's dealing with here.
Yeah.
That's what he's talking about here.
And it's the same thing, you know, with these big IEDs that the enemy makes where you
think, hey, I'm protected.
I'm going to tank, but one of those big giant IEDs can do some damage.
Next armored battles against infantry and anti tanks are short and violent.
They take great strength in mind, and both physical and moral courage, because of this
violence and the speed with which they are terminated.
And once launched tanks must closed at their best speed, just the same as infantry, and also
just the same as infantry, they must fire while closing.
Next, every effort must be made to attack the flank, or preferably the rear of the enemy.
In executing such an attack, we must use all means that our command to prevent the enemy
from stopping these turning movements.
So this is exactly what I was talking about.
Think about this, every effort must be made to attack the flank, or preferably the rear
of the enemy.
That's brilliant.
I talked about this all the time.
You don't want to attack your enemy head on, you want to attack them from the flank, right?
Clearly he understood that.
However, you can look at his history, and he would attack his superiors, his people
are out, you know, the people's peers, he would attack them instead of developing a relationship
instead of coming from the flank, and it ended up putting him in a position where he
didn't get the final command that he wanted to get.
So yes, my goal is to think about patting from a tactical perspective and then take it
one step further and apply his battlefield tactics to leadership.
And I wish he would have done that.
Here he says to summarize, and here's where he kind of r- I skipped a bunch of stuff, but
to summarize, we must take great and calculated risks in the use of armor, but we must
not dive off the deep end without first determining whether this running pole is full of water.
That's the dichotomy of leadership.
Yes, you have to take risk, but no, you don't just jump in.
This is a good one.
You must never halt because some other unit is stuck.
If you push on, you will release the pressure on the adjacent unit, and it will accompany
you.
That is really smart.
Someone next to you gets bogged down and you stop to help them.
And now you're going to get bogged down until.
So don't do that.
This was Dean Ladd going into Taurua.
And the order was for all the Marines, if someone gets hit, keep going.
That's what we need to do.
And thankfully, for Dean Ladd, his men didn't obey that order, but if everyone didn't obey
that order on that day, they never would have made it to the beach.
So that's not just a one-on-one.
That's the same with units as well.
Next troops are never defeated by casualties, but by lack of resolution of guts.
Girls are won by a few brave men who refuse to fear and push on.
It should be our ambition, our ambition to be members of this heroic group.
So you're never going to lose a battle because of casualties, you're going to lose because
of lack of resolution of guts.
More casualties occur among those who halt or go to the rear than among those who advance
and advance firing.
That's default aggressive.
We're not going to run back.
We're not going to stop.
We're going to be default aggressive and keep maneuvering.
Finally, all of us must have a desperate desire and determination to close with the enemy
and to destroy them.
Desperate desire.
I kind of just breeze through those words, but think about what those words mean.
A desperate desire and determination to close with the enemy and destroy them.
Boom.
He's got a little section here called common tactical faults.
It is nearly always a mistake to occupy obvious cover.
This is particularly true in sparsely wooded country because the woods are clearly marked
on maps and in the enemy possession and they will almost invariably be subject of concentration.
You each to see this run out of training, we put guys out on reconnaissance and they're
doing a reconnaissance of some target.
If there was you look up at like a hillside and there's like one little group of shrubs,
you can take your opposing force guys and go, hey, go check out those shrubs and there's
like a 60% chance.
There's the little seal squad or little seal fire team sitting in there with a camera.
You just walk up there and see, big surprise.
There was three outcroppings of brush and you're in one of them, what a surprise.
So that's what he's saying here.
Don't take the obvious cover.
When the fire starts, bayonets should be fixed.
They encourage our soldiers and discurs the enemy.
In a platoon or any other commander moves to the front to reconnoiter during a firefight,
he must not move to the rear to disseminate information he is acquired, but rather the
unit must come up to him.
The site of officers moving to the rear has a disturbing effect on the troops and serves
no useful purpose.
That's a brilliant little thing to think about.
Hey, I'm going to go up and find out what's going on in 40 minutes, send someone to
this location and I'll tell you what's going on.
Next, and again, skipping a bunch, but these are the key points.
There is a ridiculous and widespread fear among all our troops that they will run out of
ammunition, particularly small arms ammunition.
If my, in my experience, this has never happened.
Troops should remember that if they save ammunition, which they could have effectively
suspended against the enemy for some unforeseen contingency, they will also save the lives
of a number of enemy who will participate in the contingency.
So he's saying, get some.
I can tell you that guys in Ramadi ran out of ammunition, even though he may not have experienced
it happened.
It happens.
That little story I've told before about Mikey Montsour making this video.
Yeah.
And me showing up and everyone's saying, go watch Mikey's video.
And I'm like, cool, I go watch Mikey's video and then Tim going in the moon.
And he shows it to me and of course, on Mr. serious.
And I say, Mikey, there's a firefake going on.
What are you doing taking a video?
And he's like, I was like, just a surfer.
I was like, cool, you're not at home.
Guess, guess, makes a video.
But yes, you can't run out of ammunition.
So maybe not 100% really with that on that one.
The necessity for using all weapons to their maximum fire capacity during our attacks cannot
be too strongly impressed on the soldiers.
And he gun that is not firing is not doing its job.
And the assault we're marching fires used by infantry every gun machine gun and mortar must
fire.
So yeah, I mean, that's what he's talking about.
I think even to the previous point, he's talking about these assaults where you have
a massive logistics train right behind you.
So you're not, you should really shouldn't run out of ammunition.
Unlike what we were doing where you might not have logistics train right there behind
you, you might have to be kind of stuck out the city somewhere for a little while.
So yeah, get some with the guns.
At the close of a fight is very desirable that our own dead be removed from view is rapidly
as possible.
After this has been accomplished, the enemy dead should be removed with the same reverence
we accord our own and given a proper burial.
Next there is a regrettable tendency on the part of company officers and non-commission
officers to accompany the firing line as if they were members on a well-trained chorus
simply keeping position.
This attitude of mind and the actions resulting from it is impossible in battle.
Officers and non-commission officers are there for the purpose of seeing that all the weapons
of their respective little commands are functioning.
They cannot see this by simply accompanying the movement.
They must direct it.
This is the thing about this that I think of and I've talked about this before with
Stoner Seth Stone who was the Delta Patum Commander in Task and Abuser and him want
to him staying exactly where he was supposed to stay according to the standard operating
procedures while executing maneuvers on the battlefield.
There's a pre-determined place where everyone is supposed to be.
I was watching him, he'd be in the perfect pre-determined place but the pre-determined place
that you're in doesn't always allow you to see what you need to see as the leader.
You actually just because that's the standard operating procedure, there are deviations
that you can make and that you need to make as the leader to make sure that you can see
what's going on, you can see with the next maneuver's supposed to be.
That's sort of what he's talking about here.
What he's saying is you aren't just going along with the movement.
You gotta make it happen to the same thing I was saying Stoner like, hey, once the call
gets made, it's not just they're going to execute it, you got to direct it, you got
to get a control of it and make it go to the right place.
Then he says this key point in this letter as in those proceeding it, I am not laying
down inflexible rules, I am simply giving you my ideas.
Even this guy who thinks that he's so smart and thinks that all of his military intuitions
are 100% correct and will be proven out in history to be the right call.
Even this guy is saying, listen, I'm not laying down like things that you can't adapt
from, I'm just giving you what my ideas are.
Then he says, I must and do trust your military experience, courage and loyalty to make
these ideas tangible.
There are many ways of fighting, all of which are good if they are successful.
So even the great, what's that word, bump to us?
Yes.
General Patton is saying, I know I told you like, I'm right all the time, but do what
you gotta do.
These aren't inflexible rules, do what you gotta do.
He wraps this one up.
We are now entering the final stage of a great war of a great victory.
This victory can be obtained by the maximum use of all weapons, both physical and spiritual.
It is the duty of all commanders to see that they're mannerfully aware of the many
vile deeds perpetrated upon civilisation by the Germans and that they attack with the utmost
determined, determination, ferocity and hate.
I am sure that every man will do his duty and I am there for sure that victory is simply
a question of when we find the enemy.
So it's interesting that he's actually telling them, you need to attack with hate.
It's a different level.
This is total war.
This isn't like, oh well, you know, attack with some dislike.
No.
We're going to attack with hate.
And that's how he wraps up.
That was a letter of instruction number three.
This is letter of instruction number four.
Now they're starting to make some adjustments.
He says the acute supply situation confronting us has caused the Supreme Commander to
direct that until further orders the third army with its supporting troops and those elements
of the 9th army placed in the line will assume the defensive.
Which he knows he doesn't really like very much being on defensive.
It is evident that the successful accomplishment of this mission will require particular
concentration upon two points.
First, this change in attitude on our part must be completely concealed from the enemy who
should he learn of it would certainly move troops to our front and oppose other allied
armies.
So he's saying, look, we can't let them know that we're going on the defensive because
then they'll just, you know, back off and go attack somewhere else.
And he says second, we must be in possession of a suitable line of departure so that we
can move rapidly when the Supreme Commander directs us to resume the offensive.
And then he says in order to carry out the requirements of paragraph 2A, which is the one
I just read, we will not dig in.
Wire or mine, but we will utilize a thin outpost zone back that suitable places by a powerful
mobile reserves.
We will further ensure that all possible avenues of tank attack are registered in all of
our batteries whose guns can bear counterattacks by our mobile reserves should be planned
and executed to secure a double development of the hostile effort with the purpose of not
only defeating it, but destroying it.
So that's pretty what he's saying is it's kind of the same strategy that the Russians
take when people attack Russia, which is look, we got a little line of defense when we
get attacked, we're going to back in a little bit, back off a little bit, and then back
off a little bit more, and then they attack it and back off a little bit more.
And then when the time is right, we'll surround them and destroy them all.
That's what he's saying.
But he's saying look, that's why we don't have to dig in.
We're putting a thin line of defense out there and then we're going to attack, we'll just
back up.
We got strong defense further back, but we're just going to back up, we're going to lower
the enemy in and then we're going to envelop them.
Very.
Simple.
The other thing that's good about it is when you're not dug in as soon as you get
the order to attack, boom, we're going on the attack because we're not dug in, which
is again something I talked about, leaders from strategy and tactics, which I wish, the
patent would have read my chapter.
Sorry.
Speaking of ego, there you go, revealed.
I wish Paton read my chapter about don't dig in because how often did Paton think, hey,
this is how we should do something and when he didn't, when he got told another way instead
of saying, okay, I understand, okay, we'll go for it.
It was resistance.
It was okay, we'll do it.
But he didn't like it.
I need to let that be known.
Which again, look, I get it.
Oh, I'm not going to do it.
Somebody tells me to do if I don't agree with it.
No, I'm not saying that.
And there's time, we've doesn't make any sense whatsoever cool.
You know, then maybe there is a time we draw a line in the sand.
But these were big giant operations where it's like, okay, we do it like this.
We do it like that.
No, we should do it my way.
And so much resistance.
And you're going to end up doing it anyways, by the way, that he just didn't develop
the kind of relationship that he needed and he didn't gain the kind of trust that he needed
up the chain of command where they put him in, to see in your positions where he could
have had even more impact.
Oh, yeah, don't dig in.
Don't dig in around your ideas.
Don't dig in even on the defense sometimes.
Which I hesitate to say, let me just make this note.
If you're in a truly defensive position, dig in because the enemy is going to attack you
and you don't want to be, you want to have a place that you can get good covered from the enemy
attack.
I'm not saying never dig in.
I'm saying most of the time don't dig in.
All right, now this next section is from something that Pat wrote.
I want to say you wrote it in 1924, 26, something like that.
But we've been way before World War II.
But it was after he got done with World War I.
And once again, not reading the whole thing.
But I think the name of this essay, we'll call it by General Patton, was the secret of
victory.
And this is where you kind of start to realize that Patton was a really smart and educated
individual because he's a very eloquent writer, especially for a guy that swore so much.
But very eloquent writer, and we'll go to this here, despite the years of fought and
oceans of ink which have been devoted to the elicidation of war, its secrets still remain
shrouded in mystery.
Indeed, it is due largely to the very volume of available information that the veil is so
thick.
So everyone's been trying to figure out war for a long time.
And because so many people have written about it, that's what makes it hard, it's one
of the things that makes it hard to understand is that so much stuff has been written about
it.
And by the way, that whole opening letter to George, like we could have just broken that entire
thing down.
Maybe we should have.
He's talking about you need to read history.
So he goes on here.
War isn't art and as such is not susceptible of explanation by fixed formulae.
So wars, this crazy thing, and it's, you can't just say, okay, this is what war is.
No, it's an art.
It's like trying to explain art.
Can you explain art?
Can you explain why someone likes this painting, but not that painting, but the other person
likes that painting, but not this painting, you can't explain that.
You can't explain why you universally, most people like this painting.
You universally, most people like this song, right?
You can't explain that.
Otherwise guess what, people would just go, oh, go, I need to make a hit and song.
No, I'll just produce one.
The formulae formulae.
No one can describe what makes a good video because the echo charts you're here.
Sure.
Now, this is something you are cleared hot to talk about, right?
Okay.
A little bit more than weapons load out.
Probably.
So, if it was, hey, we just need to make a good video and it'll go viral.
That's the answer.
Right, cool.
Hey, echo, go make a viral video.
Do it with your favorite.
Just go make a viral video.
You can't do it.
Yeah, actually, that's a good comparison because there's so, and especially now, and probably
more in the future, where there's going to be a lot of information, or a lot of people
start writing about it, or write more about it about what makes a viral video.
That's like perfect.
Yeah, it's a more perfect thing because everybody wants to make a viral video.
Oh, yeah.
That's the, I mean, everybody wants to make a viral video, but you can't just open up
the formula and say, okay, cool.
What we need to do is need to be 38 seconds long and you have this type of soundtrack
and you have this type of visuals and this type of voice over.
Good.
Okay, produce it.
Boom.
Do it.
Gangman style.
Oh, whatever that one.
And got your style.
How did that end up being one of the most, it might be the most.
It might be the most viewed video of all time, right?
I don't know.
But it's up there.
We know that.
I know for at least three months of time, my little kids between the ages of whatever they were,
six and eight were walking around the house, singing Gangnam style.
Yes, there.
Yeah.
And I'm saying, haven't, wait, hold on.
Let me play Blacks' App is for you, please.
Yeah.
And even when people do do to make the formula, it's like super ambiguous.
And guess what?
That same guy?
There.
Okay.
Well, we've made Gangnam style.
Just making another one.
Yeah.
No.
I don't even think there was another one.
Yeah.
There.
I mean, that's like a group, right?
I think that's like a music group.
See, we don't even know.
Yeah.
That's the kind of point of view.
No, it's like guy.
Yeah.
But he's like, yeah.
Artists.
He's like, you as a legit, like, pop guy.
Yeah.
He made that song.
But then he tried to make another one.
And it wasn't, you know, you just can't.
He didn't.
There's no form.
Yeah.
Same thing with war.
And here we go back to the book, away from Gangnam style.
We're going back to the book.
Yeah.
From the earliest time, there has been an unending effort to subject its complex and emotional
structure to dissection, to an unseated rules for its waging, to make tangible its
indangibility.
One might as well strive to isolate the soul by the dissection of the cadaver as to seek
the essence of war by the analysis of its records.
That's a pretty powerful, right?
You might as well in order to find out what makes war war, you, it's like looking for
the soul in a body.
And then he says, yeah, despite the impossibility of physically detecting the soul, its
existence is proven by its tangible reflection in acts and thoughts.
So we know we exist.
It's there, but you can't open up the body and find it.
So with war beyond its physical aspect of armed hosts, their hovers and impalpable something
which on occasion so dominates the material as to induce victory under circumstances quite
inexplicable.
So sometimes things happen in war that victory is achieved and no one can really even
understand how it's inexplicable.
He goes on the great warriors were too busy and often too inept to write contemporaneously
of their exploits, saving the form of propagates, propagand reports, while what they later
put on paper as biographies were retro specs colored by their vein strivings for enhanced
fame or political conditions then confronting them.
So when these great warriors wrote, it was afterwards because they have time to do it
while they're fighting.
So afterwards and then they kind of got a little ego involved which here's, here's got general
pat and call them everyone out on their ego.
Or there's some political situation going on that's why they wrote it a certain way.
So you don't even get the truth from the warriors themselves because they don't have
time and or they do it afterwards in which case it's colored or should say miscullored
by their ego or the political environment that they're at.
With the efforts of historians, the case is even worse.
Those who write at the time are guilty of partisanship and the urge of hero worship.
So even some of that's a historian right now they got those problems.
In peace the scholar flourishes and war the soldier dies.
So it comes about that we view our soldiers through the eyes of scholars and attribute
to them scholarly virtues.
So since it's the scholarly people telling it, they paint these people to be you know
scholarly and that's not always the case.
Seeking obvious reasons for the obscure we analyze their conduct as told by historians
and assign as reasons for their success.
A parent trivial things.
So we say look we we look at someone in the past who is a great warrior or a great leader
and we say okay they were a great leader because of this or because of that because that's
what some scholarly person wrote about.
Some of you'll things music has a myriad music has its myriad of musicians but only
it's dozen masters.
So with painting sculpture literature medicine or trade or videos.
Many are called but few are chosen.
So that's what he's saying is that these leaders are the same way.
There's there's there's people that make music but these combat leaders there's not too
many of them that actually rate you know Beethoven or Tony Ayomi.
Nor can we concur wholly with the alluring stories in the advertising sections of our
magazine which ported point to the golden path of success to all and sundry who follow
that particular phase of home education that they happen to advocate.
So just like the get rich quicks game is not going to work these little thinking that these
little leadership things that you learn okay they're not really going to help you as much.
Knowledge is power but to a degree only.
Its possession per se will raise a man to mediocrity but not to distinction.
So you can be smart you can learn a lot but that doesn't mean it.
Doesn't get you there.
In art and the funny thing as you read this there's a whole this whole thing is a bug
and egotistical writing right because he said listen there's normal people and then
there's there's you can have knowledge that'll get you so far but to truly be the
master is pretty rare.
And it's he implying that he is.
You get that implication a little bit in our opinion indeed the instruction obtained from
such courses is of less moment to future success than his ambition which prompted the study.
That's interesting right so if you're a person that says hey I want to be a leader
I'm going to reach out and start trying to learn how to lead.
Is that ambition that's going to make you a leader or I want to make a lot of money so
I'm going to do this thing and that's going to make me a more money it's the ambition
is more important in making you actually successful than the course that you bought.
Hmm interesting.
In considering these matters, sight should not be lost of the fact that while there is
much similarity there's also a vast difference between the successful soldier and the successful
man in other professions success due to knowledge and personality is the measure of ability
in each case.
But to all accept the soldier it has vital significance only to the individual and to a limited
number of his family and associates.
So success is important when you look at any other profession it's important to be successful
because they person can take care of his associates and his family right.
So that's very important to be successful for your family and for your associates and
then he continues on while the soldier while with the soldier success or failure means infinitely
more as it must of necessity be measured not in terms of personal honor or affluence but
in the life happiness and honor of his men and his country.
Way heavier right and then let's face it you know that's kind of we hold military people
in high regards even though I mean you can find out you can go look you know what the
Admiral of the Navy makes the chief of naval operation makes you can go look it up he's
making whatever he's making like 113 thousand dollars a year you know what I mean and he's
in charge of billions of dollars worth of equipment whereas somebody that's in charge
of a medium size company is making probably 10 or 15 or 20 or even 100 times that's
probably 100 times more than what the chief of naval operation makes but we hold him
in high regard why because this guy isn't just protecting or taking care of you know
a company he's taken care of his troops and he's taking care of the country so that's
why being a military leader is held in high esteem right fully so you're not just
judging someone based on their amount of money that they make continue on hence the
search for that elusive secret of military success soul genius personality call it what
you will is a vital interest to all of us beyond question personal knowledge is a fine thing
but unfortunately it is too intimate when for example we recall a rail roll that railroad
accident the picture that most vividly presents itself to us is the severed blue gray
hand of some child victim not the misred signals which precipitated the tragedy so with
war experiences the choking gas that strangled us sticks in our memory to the more
less complete exclusion of the important fact that it was the roads and the
consequent abundant mechanical transportation peculiar to the western Europe
which permitted the accumulation of enough gas shells to do the strangling so we get
caught up looking at this one small outcome of the problem but we don't look at it
from a strategic view we don't see the big picture he says a British writer has
said the characteristic of war and by the way I'm not reading this whole thing I'm
jumping through parts of it so there might be might sound a little bit disjoined
but it's not is disjoined when you're actually reading it he continues in
another little part here a British writer has said the characteristic of war is
its constant change of characteristic but as is ever the case with a morphism his
remark needs explanation and here's his explanation there is an incest and
constant change of means to attain the inevitable end but we must take care not
to let these inevitably sundry means past are predicted attain undue
eminence in the perspective of our minds so what is he saying there he's saying
you got you got these things that change about how we're gonna achieve some goal
and those things you can get caught up in those things they can attain undue
eminence so you can believe that they're more important and then he says
since the beginning there has been an unending cycle of them and for each it's
advocates have claimed adoption as the soul means of successful war so all the
time new war this is the most important thing this is the most important thing
this is the most important thing and then he says yet the records of all time
show that the unchanging ends have been or and probably ever shall be the
securing of predominant force of the right sort at the right place at the
right time that's the most important thing you get the strongest force at the
right place at the right time that's how you win all these other things that
we're talking about they they're they're they're fake and again this is a
court in the pattern we could argue about those I'm telling you what he's saying
is that the most important thing is to be that have the strongest force at the
right place at the right time it's hard argue with that yeah continuing on
in this scholarly avocation soldiers of all important nations use at the
present time what purports to be the best mode of instruction the the
applicatory method the characteristics of some concrete problem are first
studied in the abstract and then tested by applying them with the assumed
forces and situations in in solving a nagleous problems either on the terrain
or a map representation of it so what he's saying there is the normal mode of
instructions you look at a map you look at where you're gonna maneuver your
forces and then you figure out how you're going to apply your forces and you play
a little game of chess on a map or on a terrain model or even walking the
terrain actually physically doing it and then he says this so that makes sense
right we understand that you're gonna look at this you know how to see how
you're gonna maneuver your pieces this method not only familiarizes the
student with all of the tools and technicalities of his trade but also develops
the aptitude for reaching decisions and the self assurance derived from
demonstrated achievement okay cool so by doing that by looking at a map by
looking at terrain by going out and walking through the terrain by going out
and simulating combat you're gonna increase your what does he say you're self
assurance your aptitude for reaching decisions that's gonna happen it's gonna
make you better but then he says but at always as always there is a fly in the
ointment high academic performance demands infinite intimate knowledge of details
and the qualities requisite to such attainments often inhabit bodies lacking
personality man that's a crazy thing to think about right that you got this
people that are willing to study and willing to work but what they miss is they
don't have they they they don't have the personality they don't have the
charisma so they're smart the book smart right that's the term to get to use
this person here and that's a thing that comes out as a negative right someone
says oh you know he's a really book smart they don't say that like oh he's super
book smart no that's who he's talking about people that are book smart and then
he says and also the striving for such knowledge often engenders the
felacious notion that capacity depends on the power to acquire such details
not the ability to apply them so you got someone over here that can memorize
what's in the book but that doesn't necessarily mean that they can take
what's in the book and apply it you notice that you did see right you get
someone that understands the move yeah but you got to know how to well look
jjitsu is an interesting example because you can take someone and teach them the
move and you're gonna get it and they can achieve a good level but the people
that can go next level are the people that can take those things and apply them
in different ways different situations different scenarios and then create
things out of it that's the difference between or not even but up this is I
think someone can be just a good applyer and be a world champion in jjitsu
like someone that studies and is great and knows the moves they can be a world
champion but to be like the elite of the elite you got to have that next
level you got to be able to take those things and apply create next level yeah
and not to skew the thing towards making videos or nothing like that that seems
to be the top and well you know but you see the end with a lot of stuff like
where do you see this with weapons as well sorry you're out of the
right when you know like sometimes and then you okay you saw you run to this on
YouTube where it's like okay you can look you can look up videos on how to make
videos right so and then so after a while you can kind of discern okay this
person just read the directions you know you know how you get that impression
from somebody and it doesn't matter you know necessarily video it can be a
lot of stuff when it's like you just get the impression that they read the
directions and they did a good that it clean perfect but you can sort of tell
versus the guy who's like maybe a little bit more creative with it or yep you
can you can tell they understand the cool comprehensive thing and then they
can add their own personal little element well the example that I use which I've
used before is you can take a flyer and put it up in a good-tarr center and
say hey I need someone that can play you can pick the most complicated songs
ever and there's you'll get 20 people that will call you up and they'll
actually be able to play those songs and yet they're all working regular
jobs because they didn't have that thing that creative thing they learned the
mechanics of the job but they couldn't they can't create something new no
offense I mean I wish I could play guitar like that I can't but that's what
separates that's why that's why there's people that can are incredible musicians
guitarist technicians maybe musicians as a sort of just musicians imply that
they got that creative spark too I don't know that mean to me yeah I don't
know yeah maybe okay well you can put you out there yes or no I guess you've got
incredible technical musicians that can play any song on whatever instrument
but they don't have that little thing and that's what he's talking about their
book smart yeah what about you know you get these okay you know the old school art
right that real valuable art like you know Picasso and others then you have these
master foragers where are they on this whole thing
maybe like I mean I think they're like the technical guitarist that can
lay down the riff exactly you can't tell the difference but it doesn't really
matter because they can't create something new right if you're a master forger
that's great but you you're not going to be remembered because you didn't
create anything so creativity is what we're talking about here which again you know when
we went over the the Marine Corps manual tactics with Dave Burke like think about how
often they talked about creativity good to take yes good deal day think about how often
they talked about creativity yeah and I've been talking about since day one I think it was on
the first time I was on Tim Ferriss I said combat is an exercising creativity and it is and
that's what he's saying yeah for the master forger essentially will always have that
limitation no matter how good no matter you unless he can break out right and you know
what I thought you were going with this was like the modern art you know where it's just
some random thing and and you can look at it go well my four-year-old could have created that
right yes and then there's other people going away this second you're messing something here
that this is why this is creative this is why this is important whatever and what's interesting
also is when people when you when you when you're that good of an artist at drawing things
you have to get that good at drawing things realistically before you can break out and see them
from a different perspective I think I'm not a presenter yeah I don't know but don't I mean
not to say that that's not true but it's one of the things that Karri you're saying earlier there is no
formulae there even in evaluation of art really I mean we're all trained to understand
this is a well-known critic of art but is there even such thing as a critic of art officially
yeah not really no and it's it's weird too because like with music there's music that is so
popular that I can't stand and most of the music that I like is not popular you know what does
that mean it's your special bro obviously I guess that art is in the eye of the holder in many cases
one might say yeah well yeah because some people they don't and maybe I misunderstood what you
meant when you said the artist has to be able to draw like yeah like good first right for the
breakup but a lot of artists I mean from what I understand they don't necessarily know how to
like draw that good it's more of just they're like the idea behind the result kind of thing
you know I don't know I'm not sure I think people just go first and they just go deeper in their head
and they're like hey you know the invoke like everything in them you know that's a good point too
because like with some of the old like punk rock bands that really like had a big impact
it wasn't because they were good musicians it's because their emotion emotionally raw right
yeah they just people heard it went whoa this is this is a different thing and so that's you could
be you could be totally right and that's the same thing right you don't necessarily have to be a
fine artist before you start drawing crazy stuff right or drawing abstract stuff let's say
not necessarily true yeah follow in people even music like you know the guy
super impressive where these guys like they may or may not even be a homeless guy but
they're on the street oh yeah I got a bucket yeah and they're like shopping the bucket and
they're like doing all this stuff and it sounds really like dope but it's like I don't know
like is it reaching everybody well definitely not reaching anybody everybody I posted
up there was some got there was like a bunch of bump of bumps I mean bumps in San Diego I was
out for dinner and they were playing bluegrass you ever seen someone with a it's like a
like a broom pole or whatever a broom broom stick into like a upside down wash bin
with a string on it and it's a base okay well it's like what you'd see in the old days and then
there's someone was plucking a banjo and someone else was playing guitar and these people
were clearly they were homeless people you know they were probably between the ages of
I would say maybe 20 to 20 to 26 so they're pretty young and and I was walking and I
had just heard them and I was thinking man this ban sounds good right and I get up and I see
they're just completely homeless and they were jamming and I actually posted it on Instagram
and you know when you got done it my son I was with my son and my son was like tell us guys
we're good and I said yeah I know that was impressive and what does that mean that means
well your question was are they reaching everybody no they're not reaching anybody they're
reaching it literally four people were standing there watching them right so what's better so is
so okay I was having this debate it was a long time ago Tim Tim Ford so he was like saying
Tim but he was making music or whatever and he goes deep you know with his
music like what he's saying Derek's and something like whatever and he and so we're talking
about it like what's better music right and he's like oh like I think basically his premise was
underground rap is better than you know popular rap now and I had no dug in the fight but
we were just kind of more just taunting him a little bit and he was really emotionally dug in
on this one and and so I was like okay I was like well how do you prove that you know just because
you like it better doesn't mean overall it's better you got to be able to measure it so I'm like okay
so a little waned with the it was the song go DJ you heard that song go DJ anyway it's real popular
song at the time and I happened to like it and I was like no go DJ is better than all your underground
rap I just said it to trigger him I'm not saying that's a fact or nothing but but I used the
measurement tools like okay how many albums have you know you guys sold like or how are we going
to measure you know and we couldn't really hit the net where he couldn't really hit the nail and
the head as to why it was better why underground rap is better you know but I sort of had
something like this than I'm because I had the measuring tool you know but at the end of the day
I think which I didn't say in the argument because you know it would have been kind of a cop out
given what we're doing there is no really way to tell that's what I'm saying it's like it's all
are just because it reaches just because a bunch of people I don't love go DJ that's not a
life changing song but if it's on like we're going to enjoy it then there's so there's that
side of the spectrum right like I don't know maybe what you're bringing spirit something like this you
know some of this thing pretty deep but whatever saying it's on this side of the spectrum
a lot of the time and then on the other side it's like I don't know something like super deep
that not many people know about but the people who do know about it it's like man that's my life
song kind of thing you know so it's a spectrum there but who's to say what's better you know well
yeah well I think I'm to say what's better you know where's you uh yeah so I guess the whole
point of this entire diverges that we've just taken is that just like in art and music there's a
spark that you have to have and it's the same thing with leadership and so now he continues on with
this thing that the people that they that the more that they learn the more that they learn from the
books the better they're going to do and he says this obsessed with this thought students plunge
deeper and even deeper their exertions but in and meshing them more until like myered
mastodons they perish in a morass of knowledge where they first browsed for sustenance
like I said Paddha good writer so you picture these big giant mastodons that you know
go fall into this murred this giant pit of knowledge it's just too much for them and they die
that's what happens this young leader just trying to read everything it's coming from a guy that
tells you to read everything and I say that I mean Paddha's telling you you need to read but what he
saying is like you can go so far to that you're you just end up well perish in a morass of knowledge
and he continues on when the prime spade of the unbiased investigator has removed the
muck of official reports and the mire of self-laterry biographies from the swamp of the world war
then the skeletons of many such military mammoths will be discovered
and what I love about this is as I as anyone knows from the books that we cover on this podcast
I've said since they've day one oh why don't you cover this book about the great war this book
about World War II or this this that was written by this great historian I'm like oh no I like first
person accounts I actually like first person accounts as often as I came from like the front line soldiers
of course I like the general stew and the card kernels that's great but I like to hear what the
front line tap to say and that's that's part of what I like about his idea that just reading from this
from this high altitude doesn't necessarily give you the information you need he continues on
beyond questions no soldiers ever sought more diligently oh sorry he says amidst their mighty remains
will lurk the elusive secret of German failure he's talking about World War I beyond question no
soldiers ever sought more diligently for pre-war perfection they built and tested and adjusted their
mighty machine and became so engrossed in its visible perfection in the accuracy of its bearings
and the compression of its cylinders that they neglected the battery when the moment came their
masterpiece proved inefficient through lack of the divine afflits which is a divine inspiration
a divine thing and that is the soul of a leader so that the Germans were really rigid in the
way they prepared things and again this is his viewpoint but it's a pretty good viewpoint that
the Germans in World War I coming out of that prussian uh uh coming out of that that prussian
mentality like this is the way we're gonna do things but they forgot that you gotta have a soul
do you gotta have the soul of a leader and that's what happened to him they didn't that's what
he means the battery like where's that energy come from yeah guess what those soul of the leader
and he says this truly in war men are nothing a man is everything in acquiring a
tradition we must live on not in our studies so in order to require great knowledge you you have to
you have to live on the studies not in them we must guard against becoming so engrossed in
a specific nature of the roots on bark of the trees of knowledge as to miss the meaning and
grandeur of the forest that they compose that's a really complicated way of saying don't miss
the forest through the trees it fails the simplicity as has been pointed out the secret of victory
lies not holy in knowledge it lurks invisible in that vitalizing spark intangible yet as
evident as lightning the warrior soul that's where he's in the victory lies the warrior soul
we shall now seek to evaluate and place in their just ratio the three essentials to victory
inspiration knowledge and force which he also calls mass we may therefore postulate that no
one element be its soul knowledge or mass is dominant that a combination of any two of these factors
gives a strong presumption of success over an adversary relying on one alone and that the three
combined are practically invincible against a combination of the other two so here's the important
things inspiration knowledge and and force or mass and he actually I'm not covered in now but he
gives some examples of where these things were important through history I'm not going to cover
them right now but these three things are what you need for victory he says man cannot live
by bread alone and that as a man thinketh so he is have been for generations drawn from countless
pulpits as the texts for proliques and unconvincing sermons until cognacy of the phrases has been
somewhat dulled yet they contain an infinity of truth and I think you say this a lot it means like
when you something that gets said all the time yeah there's a reason to cliche is a cliche right
there's a reason people say it yeah because there's some what is he called there's some infinity of
truth in there right so that's what he's saying so these things man cannot live by bread alone
and as a man thinketh so he is he those are cliches but there's truth in them war is conflict
fighting is an elemental exposition of the age old effort to survive it is the gold glitter of the
attackers eye not the point of the questing bayonet that breaks the line oh that's good
I'm going to read that one again it is the cold I said gold it is the cold
glitter of the attackers eye not the point of the questioning bayonet that breaks the line
it is the fierce determination determination of the driver to close with the enemy not the
mechanical perfection of the tank that conquers the trench it is the cataclysmic
ecstasy of conflict in the flyer not the perfection of his machine gun which drops the enemy in
flaming ruin yet volumes are devoted to armaments and only pages to inspiration
so these actual man the human element is more important than the bayonet than the tank
and then the aircraft and then the machine gun and yet we talk about these are you know his books
written about these different weapons of war but not enough written about the soul of man
continuing on since by necessity limitations of map problems you go back to this this whole idea of
figuring out things on a map and we're doing a terrain walk since by necessity limitations of
map problems inhibit the student from considering the effects of hunger emotion personality fatigue
leadership and many other imponderable yet vital factors he first neglects and then forgets them
crazy right you look at this map and you figure we're maneuvering your people and you think what you've
read about but you forget about the thing that I try to talk about all the time which is human nature
which is understanding people understanding people understanding hunger emotion personality fatigue
leadership and always imponderable things those are what you need to be concerned about as a leader
going on obsessed with admiration for the intelligence which history is ascribed to leaders past
he forgets the inseparable connection between plans the flower of the intellect and execution
the fruit of the soul he's getting an A plus an in English class right now isn't it
the inseparable connection between plans which are the flower of the intellect and execution
the fruit of the soul you gotta have both you gotta have both yes you gotta have plans but then you
gotta be able to execute continuing on since the historian through lack of experience and
consequent appreciation of the inspirational qualities of generals fails to stress them he does
emphasize their mental gifts which since he shares he values this guy was smart like me
this guy was educated like me that's what made him so great just like me
yeah sometimes people say that even if they aren't necessarily that you know what like me and
you're alike in this way and then they'll say some cool quality that you have you know just sort of
implying yeah like that yeah I'm like that too and that's what this is right oh the historians
is oh this guy was very educated like I and like you said it doesn't always necessarily but he was
well written sure well and that's what they stress doesn't it doesn't stress the inspirational
qualities of the general doesn't stress that because he focuses on the fact that the guy was
educated or the guy went to Oxford or the guy went to whatever west point is that because it's
it's more concrete it's definitely more concrete but it's also it's a shared value it's like
what you just said you know this guy was smart like when somebody does something when
when another seal does something cool I'm like yeah we know he was in the day just like me dude
then it continues on hugging the notion of intelligence he pictures armies of incident ponds
moving with the precision of machines and the rapidity of light guided in their intricate and
resistless evolutions over the battlefield by the cold effolgence of his emotionless celebrations
as transmitted to them by wire and radio through the inspiring medium of coded messages
oh that's just a get some right that's what they picture though then you know this happens today
this happens today with um I just was just responding to someone on social media that was implying
this exact thing that oh well you know jockel you were only been in charge of elite teams of seals
and so guess what they are though those are incident ponds moving with the precision of
machines and the rapidity of light like no bro actually but that's what people think they're wrong
continuing doubtlessly he further assumes the same superhuman intelligence will translate
those somber sentences into words of fire which shall electrify his chest men into frenzyed heroes
who heedless of danger shall don'tlessly translate this stillborn infants of his brain into heroic deeds
so if you think you can just put out the word and now everyone's just gonna go
execute it with with undeniable tenacity and vigor you're wrong continuing on should critics have
assigned to all manner of things oh sorry should critics have assigned success to all manner of things
and hear some of the things that they assigned success to tactics shape of frontiers happily placed
rivers mountains or woods intellectual ability or to the use of artillery all in a measure true
but none vital so yeah you can be successful from all these different things and and the
uh... shrewd critics say oh you were successful because this or you were successful because of that
you were successful because of your tactics or your frontier or the river or the woods or whatever
and it continues nor is it even the speed of the operations that the secret lays
but in the inspiring spirit with which they so inoculated their soldiers as to lift weary
foot-store men out of themselves and to make them march forgetful of agony that's the difference
according to pattern
in considering war we must avoid that adoration of the material as exemplified by scientists who
deny who deny the existence of ought they cannot cut or weigh so the scientists look at it
go well if you can't see it doesn't exist you can't weigh it it doesn't exist so therefore we're
not going to give any credit to these things that we can't exactly wrap our hand around the magic
spark as a mirror shows us not ourselves but our reflection so it is with the soul and with
leadership we know them but by acts they inspire or by the results they have achieved so you don't
see them you only know them by the acts that they make happen or things that are achieved through them
continue on like but gets like in the armies of the great we seek the reflection of themselves
and we find self-confidence enthusiasm abnegation of self loyalty and courage so this is
this is big right and this is this this and we'll get into it but here's what you find self-confidence
right boom this what you find self-confidence enthusiasm abnegation of self what is that right
abnegation of self is denial of the self this is like this is I'm not the most important thing
loyalty and courage resolution no matter how adamant
made it to knowledge no matter how infinite never be gap such a progeny so being firm in your
resolution and knowing a lot no matter how much of those two you have you never get as much as you get
with self confidence enthusiasm abnegation of self loyalty and courage such offspring only
arises from blood lines as elemental is themselves the leader must be in carnits of them now
this is what we're like that's a pretty bold statement right hey here I am a leader in the army
my name is general pat my name is well he's probably like a captain or maybe a major at this point
when he's writing this and he's saying that in order to be a really good leader he
have to be bloodline incarnate in Europe but then he says this which is awesome this is where I
get a little you know he started to move a little bit out of the box here then he comes right
back in the box and I had a paraphrase this one a little bit but nor is the suggestion
that birth is the only means of producing such a leader there are certainly born leaders
but the soldier may still overcome his natal defects by unremitting effort and practice
imagine that what's that the only traverses that's what it is that's what it is I've got a book
called Leadership Strategy in Tactics there's this there's a chapter in there called born or mate
and the answer is both and that's the same thing that general patency in here
you look you can be born a great leader but you can still overcome your natal defects
just by unremitting effort and practice that's how you can get good
self-confidence of the right so I think this is where he's going to start hammering through
yeah so he starts hammering through this list of things so the first one is self-confidence
self-confidence of the right sort as differentiated from bump-chewist presumption based in ignorance
is the result of provenability the sense of conscious achievement it's existence presupposes enthusiasm
for without this quality no one would endure the trail veil of acquiring self-confidence
so self-confidence takes time in order to get self-confidence you have to be enthusiastic and you
have to be because you have to be successful things self-confidence you get just wake up and have it
you have you have it's it's conscious achievement it's provenability and the more you prove
able the more confidence you're going to get which is interesting that in my new book I
talk about how do you get someone to increase their confidence you're given tasks that they can
achieve that's exactly what he's saying over time that's how you build up self-confidence
he continues on here the enthusiasm which permits the toil and promises the achievement is simply
an all absorbing preoccupation in the profession elected so when you're fired up for something
when you're enthusiastic that's what allows you to overcome the toil and the times that you drop
the balls that you're learning how to juggle you just keep picking them up and dirtiness
of the next one endurance to is linked with self-confidence mentally it is the ability to
subvert the means to an end to hit your wagon to a star and to attain it physically it presupposes
sufficient enthusiasm to force on nature no matter how reluctant the obligation of constant
bodily fitness through exercise hmm then he says the expanding waistline means the contracting
heart line both in length and vigor and then he says witness Napoleon at and after Jenna
the battle of Jenna which is where the questions figured out that they need to use maneuver
warfare and decentralized command but because that's because they got crushed by Napoleon
and I didn't I don't know apparently Napoleon at Jenna wasn't good shape and Napoleon after
Jenna maybe he let it go so constant bodily fitness through exercise mental ability to hit your wagon
to a star and attain it right that's endurance next up abnegation of self seems perhaps
incongruous when applied to such selfish persons as Frederick or Napoleon but this is not the case
so this is kind of funny too because right there be patting too it's patting too right
I mean patting has at least a big Evan Ego as Napoleon or Frederick
but this is not the case he says self can be subordinated to self
the course of can leading his grenadiers at Lodi subordinated the life of bone apart to the glory
of Napoleon so once again even patting you know this is a form of humility right that's what it is
it's like everyone else is more important than me that's what it is
next one is loyalty loyalty is frequently only considered as faithfulness from the bottom up
it has another and equally important application that is from the top down one of the most frequently
noted characteristics of the great who remained great is the unforgittfulness and of loyalty to their
subordinates it is this characteristic which binds with hoops of iron their juniors to them
a man who is truly an unselfishly loyal to his superiors is of necessity so to his juniors and
they to him so this is great right loyalty up and down the chain of command you're just not
loyal to the people above you you're loyal to the people below you you take care of them
and if you take care of them they're going to take care of you once again it's in the book
leadership strategy and tactics next courage moral and physical is almost a synonym of all
forgoing traits it fosters the resolution to combat and cherishes the ability to assume
responsibility the ability to assume responsibility be it for successes or failures
we call that extreme ownership he says but as with biblical candle these traits and now he's
that was the last trait now he's talking about all these traits these traits are of no military value
if concealed a man of definite manner will never inspire confidence a cold reserve cannot
be get enthusiasm and so with the others there must be an outward visible sign of the inward
and spiritual grace it then appears that the leader must be an actor and such is the fact
but with him as with his be wigged compare he is unconvincing unless he lives the part
so yes the leader has to be an actor but guess what if the leader doesn't actually believe what he's
doing it's bevons going to see through it just like an actor a be wigged actor be wigged that's like
a person wearing a wig okay so because I thought when you said an actor meaning someone who takes action
but he's not straight up straight up stage a person on the stage the person on the stage has to act
and he's unconvincing unless he lives the part and that's why a leader's got to be you got to live it
you got to think that you got to believe it stay character and if you don't believe it then
everyone's going to see through it yeah that's kind of truth everybody you know people like
are you we back in the day when I was a personal trainer and you get a personal trainer who's like
an out of shape you know okay but they you know according to them they know everything kind of
thing is like brigh and kind of kind of I mean we can see it on you obviously but yeah if you feel that
you know so yeah you're not going to follow them clear your way more apt to follow you know some
if someone's a fitness instructor someone that's a good shape yes but more important for me
is if you don't really believe in what you're saying as a leader everyone can see it and where
this really comes into play then this is such a incredible thing and I've talked about it over
and over again and I put it there's a new addition of dichotomy leadership that I talk about this
I think it was the Barnes and Noble edition they put like a section in there that I had written this
article about and I talk about it in leadership strategy and tactics and that's this if
if your goal is to take care of yourself everyone can see it you're going to fail that's the
way it is like if your goal if you're if you're willing to step on people and cross them in order
to move up the chain of command everyone's going to see it and you're going to fail now look you
might get a couple wins here and there I get it but long term you're going to fail
if your goal is to take care of your team and accomplish the mission that's what your true goal is
number one you're going to be successful in taking care of the team and successful in
accomplish the mission and then guess what a by-product is you will be successful as well
but the minute you say well wait a second maybe I'll just focus on myself for a second it's the wrong
move it's the wrong move what you want to do is say how can I best take care of my people that's
what you want to say that's what you want to believe that's what you want to do and if you do that
you take care of your people and you take care of your mission and that's where the way you're
operating everyone can see it up and down the chain of command by the way and eventually that will play
out correctly if you're looking to take care of you people will see that up and down the chain of
command and eventually that will play out incorrectly and then he says can a man acquire and demonstrate
these characteristics that's these characteristics self confidence endurance obligation of self
loyalty and courage can a man then acquire and demonstrate these characteristics the answer is
they have they can four as a man thinketh so is he so all these things if you think this way
you can become that way and he finishes this out by saying this the fixed determination to acquire
the warrior soul and have acquired it to either conquer or perish with honor
is the secret to victory George S. Paton Jr. major March 26th 1926 so
this guy's got a lot of a lot of things to talk about we might be rolling into a third session
next time delivering knowledge and I think it's just so important to think about these things especially
a guy that's controversial like paton you know there's there's another quote about paton you know
because they called paton old blood guts and there's there's a quote about paton that someone
else said it was our blood his guts you know so there's some like that's a rough statement right
that's a rough statement so there's controversy you know around paton there's controversy about
some of the things that he did you know there's the whole episode of him slapping around
some of the guys that had left the front lines for various reasons that were not ham physically wounded
so some of the guys had some mental trauma you know whether they were shell shocked and what's
interesting about this is this is this is one of I'm sure we can get into but I'm reading another book
written by a by a leader in World War II and he's I was just reading this section where these
guys are coming to him crying we need you I can't take it anymore and one guy does it and he's like
you know talk to him and you know says get back on the line the next guy comes and you know he's
crying he's distraught he's like I need to get off the line I can't take anymore and the guy says
you know Smith just came to me with these problems he did a much better job acting than you're doing
so my point and the guy eventually broke down and just said yeah but I mean I just it's really hard
and he says look I know it's hard everyone's having hard time you can do this my point is
when you had there was people that were shirking their duty there were people that were
look everyone was scared patented says it a thousand times everyone was scared
whether someone actually had you know shell shock who knows
certainly when you talk about caring about your people and you get somebody in a bad situation
I mean Dick Winters talked about this when these guys were freaking out on the front lines how
he would handle it certainly wasn't by slapping around but that all is I'm saying it's that there's
controversy around pat and yet he's got great you take that controversy as part of what you can
learn at least I do and definitely a ton of perspective that he has so we'll we'll look at
people keep looking at patting I believe maybe not next episode but no no you never know what that
next episode's gonna bring I do know this I did some live gigs around America sure
they're they're over now when this podcast comes out the last two were Seattle and San Francisco
which both sold out which was awesome so to everyone that went to the jockel live shows around the
country thank you and for everyone that's asked for more looks like I'm gonna do some more so
jockel live we'll put that out soon on when these next ones will happen and the other thing is
the leadership strategy tactics and feel manual that I talked about today a couple times and just
just want to say thanks to everybody it's it's been crazy that the sales have been great and I know
that's all because you all are out there getting after it's spread in the word made it number one
and a bunch of different a bunch of different outlets that actually measure this stuff so believe
me that every time I think about that I think about everyone that that listens to this podcast
and that spread the word and you know bought yourself a first of this and by the way there was
some controversy someone sent a picture on social media and that cover was different and said you
know I waited as too long and I got the second edition I said no you're in Europe or you're in England
I think England New Zealand Europe and and basically outside America there's a different cover
it's still first edition as of right now cool why is there a different cover you know what
I guess they have different styles or something that hey this is they they just said hey this is the
this is not the way books look over here and you know I just said I just said Roger that I'm not from
New Zealand I'm not from Australia I'm not from England I'm not from Germany I'm from America
and if you're telling me that this is like in the book it's not that much different but it's different
but apparently that's normal you know and yeah make sense oh yeah I mean I don't you know I
try and keep my ego in check right I'm not George S. Pat and saying I'm right and history will prove it
I'm not thinking that and when somebody tells me something that's a professional and another arena
I go okay well maybe explain it to me you know and actually I did say that to them and they sent me a bunch
of other books it said hey here's like this is what books like look like over here your book will not look like a book even
yeah maybe I'm wrong you know I could have been wrong I could have said you know what let's hold the line and maybe
people would be looking at it going oh yeah this I'm getting this book I don't know yeah well it kind of
makes sense if you consider the concept right you know like you know some cars here like if they're
super exotic they'll have the steering wheel on the other side of the road or the other side of the
the car it'll be on the right side yeah you know I wouldn't call that super exotic that's just a car
that was built in the front country right but yeah okay period okay so let's say you're shopping for a car
and then you see like the steering wheel on the rear wheel it should have really made it would hey I'm not really
used to that you know and you could say ergonomically or whatever but you know if you
it's pretty quick to get it or for whatever mental reason doesn't even matter it's like the
chasm that needs to be crossed yeah we need to tighten that up a little bit yeah but if you go to Australia
right that's everybody same same so it's like boom we're used to that here where you see this here
on many different levels you know something's bigger than the other okay the car thing that's
probably in the side of the spectrum but the last book covers movie posters we used to
move poster if it doesn't look like a movie poster like how is that even gonna land as a movie
poster same same yeah so that's what we did so I guess the point is if you got the other cover
you're still good I'll still be I'll still still get you some knuckles on the first edition
when I opened up now I might open it up and it might say third a day that's different in which
case you know let me just look I'm not gonna I'm not gonna I'm not gonna embarrass you in front
everybody but I'm gonna look at you you're gonna know I'm gonna know that you didn't get the first
edition there's still first edition available right now but not much more they are running
around that second but so anyways I want to say thanks to everyone for all that super stoked and I
appreciate appreciate now speaking of acquiring a warrior soul which I know is a little bit of
a bold statement it is but we know from patent that we can move in the right direction as far as
improving our categories that we want improvement it can move us towards being a little bit
stronger a little bit better a little bit faster a little bit more of a warrior anything you can
recommend that could help us with that to be able to tactical advice for us maybe either conquer
or perish with honor yeah we can take jujitsu really that's really what it is what jujitsu is I mean
I don't want to say really that's what it is but we'll just say that's a part of it to conquer or
perish with honor sure if mean you're about to roll and I we're gonna shake hands because it's a part
of the the deal it's not a rule but it's kind of it's not honorable thing respect what if instead of
shaking my hand I'm surprised you with like a guillotine or something like that I conquered but not
with honor well when I escape the guillotine sure okay all right then you are gonna pay right
then I'm the one who's gonna perish and by the way if you're well I know this is happening but
it happened to me like where somebody's all excited like all amped up and they think they're big
gate sure and so you go to shake their hand and like they either a don't and by the way we're
not talking like a formal hand shake as if we just signed a NATO peace treaty we know we're just
talking a little bump in roll right yeah it's a little little little little slap bump in roll
that's all we're talking about but occasionally especially especially this happens if you're going
with someone that like is really trying to kill you and then you submit them and then they're gonna
go again but they're so engrossed in like okay we're gonna make you get you this time they're like
forget they're like their minds insane yes yeah yeah that's uh that's good dubs or you can go
instead further I don't think I've ever done that by the way I don't think I've ever got so
amped up that I like just lost my mind I think you have I've done it jokingly you know I think you've
done it where you've gotten to the point where you're you want to go again so bad that you've that
like I'll put my hand up and you'll like get reminded of me like oh yeah we're actually like friends
I could be wrong I don't know and overall you're wrong but put it this way over all your
general way because yeah as frustrated as I've ever gotten with you which is like pretty frustrated
yeah like deep deep in golfing frustration there was always like a little governor on there where
it's like even like my expressions of frustration like there's always a hint of like joke in there
like to genuine I don't think I've ever that's not even how I get for it that's not how I look
when I get for really like frustrated like I'll get more quiet than anything but with you it's like
and we said talk about this before where you're so like you can take kind of anything you know like
if I cheat with you like my straight up like you're rolling with any and I jump on your back and I
put a real choke in make you tap or whatever I feel like you can like take that you know like you
won't be all mad at me not externally anyway but you know I feel like you can just take
externally that would be retro music yes yeah but I'm just a favor but you see what I say won't
damage the relationship in any way you know like I feel like like you can kind of take these kinds of
things so it's almost like I'm in like a little free arena I believe me that's it's a good thing
I feel what I'm saying is I feel comfortable to just be like you know F u or whatever
I find sneak attacks on the GG2 map somewhat offensive yeah yeah so I'm what I'm telling you
to tell me that yep I've had a couple people do it over the years like you know like
tap someone out and like hey we were over by the wall and like kind of just turn my back to start
going back towards the center and have someone jump on my back and like put a choking yeah
that's that's cool but I'm first of all like I'm gonna get out and then I'm gonna you're gonna pay
because that's just you know that's you know what it is yeah and I think what offends me about it is
the like you can tell that their ego has flared up and they're trying to recover that or whatever
and so that maybe it is my ego that starts to flare up and I but I feel more like it's uh it's a
scenario where someone's outwine right underneath the there needs to be a lesson that gets taught
right at that point yeah I think you're right and I agree where and somebody actually also
asked me this on social media really recently which was like hey going with the guy he's grinding
his knuckles into my neck the whole time like into my face and he's like so I got on top and just
like mounted and like punished him with neon stomach or something like that is that is that bad
you know and there's a little bit of a question and I was like no it's proved like if someone
wants to get all freaking hostile and kind of I don't use the word dirty because it's not really dirty
but it's what would you call that what would you call that what they call it in Portuguese it's like
grosser right it's means like like kind of brutal yeah like if someone's getting crazy with me like that
then I'll probably put some kind of uh some kind of uh slightly increased measure back on them right
just slightly increased yeah not I'm not it's not like I'm gonna all know I'm gonna break
someone's on the ground not at all but yeah if you want to you know grab hold of my whatever
and start squeezing it's like okay cool yeah you're gonna it's weird because the that one's
on emotional by the way so you're like okay cool yeah I see where you're at right
that's not not cool and here's how you can know yeah it can be tricky though because some
because there's different levels of that like some people literally don't know what they're doing
yeah and so much like the man just relax bro you know sometimes like hey I
probably should have said that to this guy too like just being like hey man if you get crazy with
people they might get crazy with you what you want to do is try and learn and try to have a good
time this isn't actual combat we're just having fun we're trying to learn so if you should
you should really go with that approach you know that's smart that's a smart yes because he
is a level don't know yeah they don't know and then then there's like this intermediary level where
they know but it's not aimed at you specifically it's aimed at sort of everyone you know you know
the kind you know the kind of they come maybe come from an environment where it's like that or
you know so it's like their whole attitude towards any competition is like crush you kill you
like you're my enemy kind of thing and they just have this kind of subconscious attitude about
here so that's how they roll and then then you get on the other side of spectrum which I think
is the ideal candidate for the repercussions is kind of where he's like mad at you maybe not even
necessarily because it's you but just he's having a bad day or he's just like frustrated because
he's not winning or whatever kind of thing and then he's kind of he's turning it up a notch like
and how you say he's stepping out of line and that's what it is it's like you're you're stepping
slightly outside of like the mutual like respectful agreement of this friendly like training
slash competition and the other thing is you gotta remember is like when I roll with Andy
like man we're smashing each other I mean it's full he's you know we're we'll do whatever like
it's full we might as well be competing for you know the world championships because if there's
a chance where he's trying to choke me and I've got my chin down he'll he'll choke my face no
no doubt about it I'll do the same thing like but if I was wrong with someone I didn't really
train with all the time and they bury their chin up again okay I'll go for an unlock or whatever you
know you're not just you're not just putting your forearm across there across there mandible
and cranking it as hard as you can to open up a neck exposure or just get him to tap from that right
you know so yeah and that's that's a subtle kind of dance he got as you too with like who you
roll with or whatever but I think generally speaking there's like an understanding where I think we all
sort of understand where yeah like that if you're real close with someone and you already know you
guys are used to that competition you can take it a little bit further yeah yeah for sure
and then even on top of that we're like and this I guess goes for people who you're at least
have a good rapport with whether it's with a man not where okay so there's you know Isaiah right
he's one of the MFA okay so we'll roll or whatever and sometimes it'll go into in this ongoing
scramble right so like one time he was like it was an ongoing scramble I don't know if he was on
purpose going outside of the mat like outside of the door he kind of did like to escape but he went
outside of the mat and I just chased him outside and jumped on his head I wear out in the
knot on the mat anymore over by the water fountain you know but I chased him not because no
know this it's still on it was like halfway joking you know get it like who we're still fighting
but it was like joking you know sometimes people do that like serious you know like you're hitting
the mop in the corner and there's still a drain of go so so here's here's the important part of
this whole thing if the the reason that this is important is because if you and I are in a real fight
and you crank my face that doesn't mean anything I can I'm just gonna I'm like what am I going
to do I'm gonna try and bite you right there's with if you're cranking my face I'm not going to tap
to it you know so it is not a legit thing unless it opens up a choke right if you can make the
pain open up a choke with and that's fine I guess what I'm saying is there's things that you
could do to somebody like for here's another one breaking someone's finger right like I could grab
three or fingers if we were in a real fight grab two or fingers grab one of your fingers and just
break it does that end the fight no it doesn't end the fight and in fact it has a not a huge impact
on the fight immediately right you know like it's not gonna end the fight immediately so therefore
for me to grab at your fingers and try and break one of your fingers is not good training partner
because it doesn't really impact the the the fight look it has a small impact in the fight but
like I got you right and this is a good one because I've had people trying to
gouge out my eyes before it's it doesn't change the outcome of the fight at that moment look
if you get your finger and deep enough because I I have not done this but I've had friends
that have dug in for eyes and it can it's definitely it makes people react right but
if someone's a trained fighter it's not this game changer it's not as a game changer as a
choke is yeah so therefore me going hey you can just attack my eyes and we're good
no because if you do that guess what I'm gonna have scratches on my eyes and yet it doesn't mean
that you could ever beat me it just means that I've scratched on my eyes doesn't change the outcome
so I guess there's the there's the strange part about this we're not the strange part that's
in some important because we do train hard we train hard for a reason yeah that's one of the
best things about you did so you can go 99% you can go 100% and hey if I get your normal
you tap if you give me an arm lock I tap cool then we go again if I gouge out your eye
it we can't go again and realistically it's hard to gouge out someone and I and it didn't
really change the outcome of fight because you'll still be fighting with one eye yeah so anyways at least
okay yeah and even if you're training for actually fighting or whatever like an outside of MMA I
guess but here's a good one biting off someone's ear right you know Igor yeah that's what made me think of
it so so Igor you know he got into a street fight and you know you you're all these people say
you know you rip off someone's ear they're gonna be done you know that's what somebody bit off
Igor's ear and he could he like I remember I was like bro and I said well what happened he
goes on like I got I got a side control and then you know mount and finish them you know with his ear
off big giant chunk of his ear golf yeah I mean visibly gone forever yeah you know Mike Tyson's
stuff yeah Mike Tiger bigger than Mike Tyson so this idea that all just bite this guy's here it's like
that's why if you and I were to go to train today and I'm like you know what just to make it
more realistic I'm gonna bite your ear off and then you're like bro what are you doing in your
stop does that mean I went no it means we lost in training yeah and I got a false sense of security
thinking that just biting off your ear would stop you when the reality is when it happened to Igor
he just was like oh cool now you're really tired so I know there's some guy that was on the
receiving end of that that's probably listening right now going on which I wouldn't have bitten that
guys ear because no man heavily paid the price and no one because this is the thing to bring us back
to jiu-jiu-jiu the the jiu-jiu that you train every single day is effective it's very effective
you don't need to bite you don't need to pull hair you don't need to galge eyes sure you can add
that stuff it's fine no real situation it's fine but the fundamentals that you know are infinitely
more powerful than these little additional things that you might think in your brain or a game
changer they're not yes thank you so jiu-jitsu so we want to train it let's go with that premise we
want to train jiu-jitsu do you have any recommendations on what we should utilize to train jiu-jitsu
yes discipline but a tire wise we're gonna go gui no gui boom so uniform for gui is a gui you
know from for no gui is not a gui it's a rash guy anyway best guis in the world factually
are from origin so go to origin main dot com you don't even have to ask anymore what gui I should get
get an origin gui and take your pick I don't care whatever color you like I'll put that yeah and
not only can you get guis there and someone actually just asked this they saw a picture of
Pete and the deco standing with origin jeans on and said but they said where do you get those
gui pants with pockets no they're origin jeans which are also available at origin main dot com
made in america from the very very thread that they are created with was made in america american
ten oh yes oh yeah good that's actually only the only jeans I wear yeah some designer jeans too
by the way that it really is this until you know I revisited them it's been so long on the last yes
origin main dot com's reading it all this stuff also they got shirts and joggers and sweat suits
what you call them sweat suits I guess oh you know other clothing attire elements yeah
yeah jeans like jockelsid also supplement yeah and you mentioned discipline I thought you're
going to talk about discipline that we sell discipline the supplement the submission
supplement pre-viscence supplement discipline powder which you can get jockel power
which is very tasty you can also get the discipline can which is awesome and milk and by the way
if you didn't know this yet the vitamin shop yeah the vitamin shop in america which I think there's
700 stores all over the place they now have the whole line of jockel fuel
okay so if you want to go and get some you can go get some good summer vitamin shop as well
or you can go to origin main dot com good and get some there yep so yes
milk additional protein in the form of dessert discipline for your brain and body to same time
discipline go the pill and the can can is like the energy drink delivery system yeah we don't
like to say energy drink because energy drinks generally speaking are not healthy got the stigma
well not it's a it's an earned stigma they got a ton of sugar in them they got a bunch of nasty
chemicals yes but this one does not this does not but if you take away the nasty chemicals
of all the sugar and that's hard as if can caffeine excessive caffeine 300 400 milligrams of caffeine
you do not need that in one can yes so take away all those negative things you we have
everything else is is essentially energy drink material so it's I think it's just a stigma
okay it has a lightning bolt from the logo true it's in one of those little things yeah it is
a can oh yeah that's true that's not because it's an energy drink because it's traffic thunder
yeah and then it's in one of those little slim cans because lemon lime doesn't have a it has a
little little lemon lime on it on the citric citric citric citric citric citric
wedge and then the logo okay okay yeah yeah so yeah exception little twist there if you will
nonetheless if you like energy drinks but you're like hey I'm not down for all that that
negative noise boom right here that's a delivery system and also speaking of vitamin
chop you me decoder myr JP to now will be in the San Diego vitamin chop on February to kick it
with the troops what is it February 8th yeah all right there you go boom also what else we got
okay can't yes are also where your kid won't yeah no additional protein for the young ones
for the youth yeah if you will best think of the world for the children agree
strawberry chop and don't forget about chocolate yes sir if you want to death of 8000
bounce get it yep true happens to be certified organic as well also yes
jocco as a store what we have a store happens to be called jocco store simplicity so go
jocco store dot com sorry this is where you can get your shirts and hoodies and beanies
and hats both flex fit and snap back chocquats while representing on the path you know
discipline equals freedom good stand by to get some back to the book back to the book all that
stuff unless you go there jocco like i said jocco store dot com if you'd like something get something
represent while you're on this everlasting path also subscribe to the podcast if you haven't already
on your iTunes or stature google play spotify you know all these podcasts where we
listen to your podcasts subscribe yep and on also we have the grounded podcast which we
almost just recorded one when we went on this big tangent just admitted to go put grounded
podcast we talk about all things life jiu jitsu and you can check that one out also the warrior
kid podcast for kids and don't forget about the warrior kid soap made by Aiden and the new soap is out
you see the logo yes so dope it's called killer soap it's got ingredients in it that help
deter micro microbials micro microbies and funguses got all to get rid of that stuff
so if your person that does something called jiu jitsu you probably want some of this and you know
it's really cool about it it's black the soap is black because it's got charcoal here good thing
yeah so so there you go get yourself some killer soap by a young kid he started a business no big deal
started it when he was like 11 started his own business got goats and decided what can I make with
goat milk oh I know what I can make soap killer soap which allows everyone in the world
just take lead oh my very nice also youtube we have a youtube channel official where echo
Charles is constantly trying his utmost to make a viral video he's got the ingredients he's got the
formula can he to can he pull it off I think my hypothesis that'll never be categorized beyond
hypothesis I think I don't think you can make a viral video like like that like you can't
know after you like okay I'm gonna formulate there is no formula for the
I'm interesting to find out if anyone's ever said okay I'm gonna make a viral video and then it
worked I would think that there's some people like on youtube like youtube stars or whatever
that they can make consistent viral videos well that depends yeah yeah sir yes sir but yeah I
think it depends on what you mean my viral video because technically god what I understand my
video is like it just comes kind of from this real source and then it goes viral so so if the platform
is already too big yeah I got 10 million subscribers and he gets 11 million views is that a viral video
okay point taken but the thing so the question is has a viral video ever been manufactured
proactively with intention yeah I sure somebody's muscle yeah I'm sure someone had a really good
idea and just came it hit him and they were like you know what and they just scored it was more
of a whole thing it wasn't a guaranteed thing but it was just like hey man this I don't see how
this couldn't go viral kind of thing and they just happen to be right you know but I don't know
that there's a formula that someone can follow the rest in the event of us us making a viral video
this was gonna be me that would be you making viral videos no but you're the talent though so what
they call it officially you're the talent person in front of the can have been word rough shape bro
the lesson yes good editing yeah well I'm gonna do my best and subscribe to that channel
you can watch echo Charles and I talk about skinny knees or what have you I think that's the most
I think that's the best the funniest video might not be the best but it's it's it's it's
pretty funny I watch it once every two months and I still laugh every yeah there's some last to be
I won't agree with that psychological warfare if you need a little help getting over a moment of
weakness you're not alone you're not alone I will be there with you press play on your MP3
be a device and I will enter your ear and give you words of discipline focus and will
so go to psychological warfare where the artist is joccal willink it's any MP3 platform we also have
a visual representation which you can find on flipsidecampus.com run by my brother to go to my
server where you can he's making let's just call it graphic representations of the path
so hit that up I got a bunch of books leaders of strategy and tactics field manual thank you all
spread the word writer review on amazon
and then get way the warrior kid the whole series one two and three marks mission where there's
a will and way the warrior kid Mikey the dragons for the little kid discipline equals freedom
field manual for the older kid that needs to be on the path the audio version of that is on MP3
platforms as well and then of course extreme ownership and the dichotomy of leadership
that is the books I wrote with my brother Dave babin laying out the principles of leadership
that will help you in business and life and if you need more help than that we have echelon
front which are leadership consultancy where we solve problems through leadership you're going to
echelon front dot com for that e f on line that's echelon front online leadership training
because leadership is not an inoculation we got the muster coming up in 2019
where we're going to be we're going to be in Orlando we're going to be in Dallas
and we're going to be in phoenix Arizona go to extremo ownership dot com
everyone of these that we have done has sold out these are going to sell out too so if you want to
come and you want to bring your team go there now extremo ownership dot com and we have e f over
watching e f legion four almost since the inception of echelon front people have been asking us hey
where can I hire veterans that know and understand the principles you talk about
that demand signal grew to a point where we now have an answer to that demand signal if you are at a
company and you want to hire people at understand extremo ownership and understand the dichotomy of
leadership and understand the leadership strategies and tactics that we talk about all the time
they go to e f over watch or e f legion to find people that will come and help lead your company
to victory and if you're a veteran and you're looking for your next mission this is where you find it
you find it at e f over watch you find it at e f legion go check them out and if for some
completely unknown reason you still feel the need to communicate with us after all these hours
then we are available on the inner webs on Twitter on Instagram and on jaw rostopok
Echoes at echelon's and i am at jico willink and thank you to everyone out there for your
support we can do this podcast without you being in the game without you getting some deaf core
or some origin gear or some jackos supplements all of which those things they support the podcast
So we appreciate all you troopers out there, trooping.
And thanks to those of you that are out there in uniform,
the soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, the coast,
guardmen who protect our way of life every day
and to our police and law enforcement,
to the firefighters, to the paramedics and EMTs,
the dispatchers, the correctional officers,
the board of patrol, secret service,
and all the other first responders
that protect us here at home,
thank you for that.
And to everyone.
Remember what patent?
Remember what patent taught us,
not only about war and leadership,
but about life.
And that is the fact that we all have weaknesses.
We all have shortfalls.
No one was born perfect,
but we can still overcome.
We can overcome our NATO defects
through unremitting effort and practice.
And as he told his own son,
you can be born with a soul capable of correct military
reactions or the body capable of having big muscles,
but both qualities must be developed
by a hard work.
So don't sit back and accept the hand
that you've been dealt negative.
Instead, overcome your weaknesses,
capitalize on your strikes by getting out there
and getting after it.
And until next time,
this is echo and jockel out.